[docs][joy-ui] Add scrollable tabs example (#39260)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/joy/components/tabs/tabs.md

{{"demo": "TabsUsage.js", "hideToolbar": true, "bg": "gradient"}}

## Basics

```jsx
import Tabs from '@mui/joy/Tabs';
import TabList from '@mui/joy/TabList';
import Tab from '@mui/joy/Tab';
```

The Joy UI set of Tabs components follows the [WAI ARIA design pattern guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabs/).

Use the `value` prop on the Tab Panel and the `defaultValue` prop on the Tabs component to target the selected tab.

{{"demo": "TabsBasic.js"}}

### Disabled tab

Use the `disabled` prop to disable interaction and focus.

{{"demo": "TabDisabled.js"}}

## Customization

### Variants

> The Tab List and Tab components accept the global `variant` prop values.

Reviewer: Since "Tab components" could refer to `<Tab />` _or_ the whole collection of components, I'd style it this way for clarity:

```suggestion
The `<TabList />` and `<Tab />` components accept the global `variant` prop values.
```

> :::info

Reviewer: maybe bump the "severity" here? since this is something that could potentially trip people up

```suggestion
:::warning
```

> The selected Tab won't apply the `:hover` and `:active` styles defined globally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Tab is selected, it _won't_ apply globally defined `:hover` and `:active` styles.
```

To learn how to add more variants to the component, check out [Themed components—Extend variants](/joy-ui/customization/themed-components/#extend-variants).
:::

### Vertical

> Use the `orientation="vertical"` prop on the Tabs component to make it vertical.

Reviewer: Same reasoning as above

```suggestion
Use the `orientation="vertical"` prop on the `<Tabs />` component to make it vertical.
```

Keyboard navigation using arrow keys adapts automatically.

{{"demo": "TabsVertical.js"}}

### Indicator placement

> Use the `underlinePlacement` prop on the Tab List component to change the Tabs' underline border placement.

Reviewer: This is a tricky sentence!

```suggestion
Use the `underlinePlacement` prop on the Tab List component to change the placement of the underline border on the Tabs.
```

{{"demo": "TabsUnderlinePlacement.js"}}

Control the selected Tab indicator independently using the `indicatorPlacement` prop.

{{"demo": "TabsIndicatorPlacement.js"}}

> Depending on the underline and selected indicator placement, you may need to change the Tabs component flex-direction.

Reviewer: Another tricky sentence!

```suggestion
Depending on the placement of the underline and the selected indicator, you may need to change the flex direction of the Tabs component.
```

{{"demo": "TabsFlexPlacement.js"}}

### Sticky

> Use the `sticky` prop to place the Tab List component at the top or bottom in a long content scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `sticky` prop to anchor the Tab List component at the top or bottom.
This is ideal for use cases that involve longer content.
```

{{"demo": "TabsSticky.js"}}

### Tab flex

> Use the `tabFlex` prop on the Tab List component to make the Tab elements fill the available space as shown in the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `tabFlex` prop on the Tab List component to make the Tab elements fill the available space, as shown in the example below.
```

- In the first demo, the Tab elements fill the available space using `tabFlex={1}`.

> - In the second demo, the Tab elements fill the available space equally using `tabFlex="auto"`, but the width of each one of them is based on the content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the second demo, the Tab elements fill the available space equally using `tabFlex="auto"`, but the width of each respective element is based on its content.
```

{{"demo": "TabsFlex.js"}}

:::info
The value of the `tabFlex` prop can be any [valid CSS flex value](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/flex).
:::

### Icon

> Since the Tab List component uses the same style as the [List](/joy-ui/react-list/) component, you can use the icon directly as a child or use List Item Decorator with a text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Tab List component uses the same style as the [List](/joy-ui/react-list/) component, you can use the icon directly as a child, or use List Item Decorator with text.
```

{{"demo": "TabsIcon.js"}}

{{"demo": "TabsIconWithText.js"}}

### Scrollable tabs

Add the `overflow: auto` property to the Tab List component to make the tabs scrollable.

> Polish it further by making the scrollbar hidden with `'&::-webkit-scrollbar': { display: 'none' }` and snapping the scroll to the edge of the Tab List component with [CSS scroll snap properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll_snap).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Polish it further by hiding the scrollbar with `'&::-webkit-scrollbar': { display: 'none' }`, and snapping the scroll to the edge of the Tab List component with [CSS scroll snap properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll_snap).
```

### Segmented controls

> To mimic the iOS segmented controls, add a border-radius to the Tab List component and set the selected Tab background to `background.surface`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mimic the segmented controls of iOS, add a border-radius to the Tab List component and set the selected Tab background to `background.surface`.
```

{{"demo": "TabsSegmentedControls.js"}}

### Browser tabs

In this example, the Tab's variant prop is set to `outlined` and the indicator is moved to the top via `indicatorPlacement="top"`.
The borders are then set to `transparent` based on the selected state.

{{"demo": "TabsBrowserExample.js"}}

### Pricing tabs

This example removes the background of the selected Tab by targeting the `aria-selected="true"` attribute.

{{"demo": "TabsPricingExample.js"}}

> ### Centralized tabs

Reviewer: "Centralized" means something more like "consolidated" or "concentrated," when I think the word we're actually looking for here is "Centered"

```suggestion
### Centered tabs
```

> To make each Tab component centralized in the Tab List, add the `flex: initial` property to override the default `flex-grow` behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To center the Tab components in the Tab List, add the `flex: initial` property to override the default `flex-grow` behavior.
```

Then, on the list, add `justifyContent: center`.

{{"demo": "TabsPageExample.js"}}

### Mobile bottom navigation

> In this example, each Tab is painted with a color from the theme when it is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, each Tab is painted with a color from the theme when selected.
```

{{"demo": "TabsBottomNavExample.js"}}

## Accessibility

> To ensure proper accessibility, [ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabs/#wai-aria-roles-states-and-properties-22) recommends to associate a label to the Tabs component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure proper accessibility, the [ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabs/#wai-aria-roles-states-and-properties-22) recommends associating a label with the Tabs component.
```

> There are two options to do that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two options to accomplish this:
```

### Using the id attribute

Add a text element close to the tabs with the `id` attribute.

> Then, on the Tabs component, add the `aria-labelledby` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add the `aria-labelledby` attribute to the Tabs component.
```
